Test automation tools:

Selenium 
---------

License -	Open source ,

Suitable- 	To test web application, works with all browsers

Features-	flexible to write in any language (Python,java,C#,Ruby)
		Ability to distribute test cases across selenium grid to run against different platforms and different browsers
		extensible for developing framework on top of it.

Watir
-----
License-	Open source, Ruby libraries

Suitable- 	To automate web application testing

Features-	Cross-browser testing
		Compatible with BDD tools like cucumber
		Can test webelements , links and their responses

KatalonStudio

License-	Free , Developed by Katalon LLC., built on top of Selenium, Appium

Suitable-	Desktop, mobile and API. 

Features-	Built-in support for Image Based testing
		Supports CI tools like Jenkins
		Execution workflow can be customized
		Built in object repository, XPath

Sahi

License -	Opensource, written in Java and javascript
Suitable-	To automate web applications
Features-	Multi browser testing
		Record and Playback
		Supports EXTJs, DOJO framework

SoapUI

License-	Open source, Part of ReadyAPI suite from Smartbear (who also offer TestComplete)

Suitable-	To perform API Testing

Features-	Generate tests using UI actions
		Data driven testing with support to read from files and databases
		Create mock services to mock RESTFul services

Postman: 
License-	Open source browser extension. 
Suitable-	This is very easy tool of API testing.
Features-	Easy too use UI
		Design, debug, test , document and publish API's




-------------------
Proprietory tools
------------------


TestingWhiz - 
License-	Proprietory, owned by Cygnet Infotech.

Suitable-	To perform webTesting, softwareTesting, databaseTesting, APITesting, mobileAppTesting

Features-	Version Control Integration
		Integration with Jira and alike
		Integration with test management tools HP Quality center, TestRail
		Keyword, Datadriven, distributed testing


UFT - Unified Functional Testing

License-	Proprietory, owned by HP

Suitable-	To perform functional and regression testing for S/W applications

Features-	Integration with Mercury BPT (Business process testing), Mercury is a company acquired by HP. Mercury software is known to provide an array of softwares to 		aid in software application practises.
		Automated documentation
		Creation of parameters for objects, checkpoints.
	
Test Complete - 

License- 	Proprietory, owned by SmartBear Software

Suitable-	To automate testing for desktop, web and mobile application. Its a functional testing platform. Supports languages like (Python, Javascript,JScript)

Features-	Record and PlayBack
		Test visualizer
		GUI Testing
		Scripted Testing

Ranorex-	

License-	Proprietory, Owned by Ranorex

Suitable-	To Perform testing for all desktop, web and mobile applications
	
Features-	Record and Playback
		Bug Detection
		Integration with various tools
		Gui recognition

IBM Rational Functional Tester








		



